---
day: 12
title: 馬德望第五天
---
{{ page.date | date_to_string }}
<p>
撰/Ann
Time really flies, can’t believe the trip is already coming to an end. Today marks the second last day volunteering at the elementary schools. We went to Dontri school and the little things I saw touched the bottom of my heart. Indeed, eyes are the windows to our souls. I realized smile is a universal language and it can really help connect the world. Although there was clearly a language barrier, I enjoyed myself immensely teaching the school children about trash recycling. The more I see, the more I find myself lost because it seems like there is really a limited number of things we could do to help them. For example, I taught about plastic burning and the adverse effect of dioxin and which kinds of trash are flammable, but the lack of government trash collection service makes it almost impossible to not burn trash. Even so, in the end, I had the students pick up one trash and they were all willing to help. Hopefully, by giving them the simple idea of not littering around school ground, we can make a small difference. I believe we already have as Gina mentioned there were more trash baskets in the classroom and the whole environment seems cleaner than before. Just knowing that makes me happy, but I know there’s a lot more we have to do if we want to make a real impact.

Visiting the homes of the locals was eye-opening. Many of the children are taken care by their grandparents while their parents work abroad in Thailand. These families have limited resources and money and most of them have limited access to clean drinking water. We often take for granted the things we have and forget how lucky we are.
​
These past days have also shown me how important teamwork is. By doing our individual part, whether it is taking picture, brushing head lice, teaching, assisting, etc, we as a group can accomplish much more than any one of us could by ourselves. I am proud to be part of Flyoung, and to wear the red t-shirt around showing our logo. This trip has been a delight. Looking forward to the last day at the schools and seeing the children one last time before I come back again.
</p>